let's go chat chat ours
so today lots of fun so we're gonna do
um we're gonna
give you guys an insight into uh
our coaching program so we we have one
of our awesome coaches today
who is going to be coaching dr k and so
i'm going to be the client and he's
going to be the coach
what uh do we want to vote on a coaching
scenario
or are we going to wing it
yeah vote gaming addiction
[Music]
you guys tell me what do you all want me
to play
okay so let's uh oh no
i've blocked him so chat meet pax
pax can you just um is that okay if i
ask you a couple of questions about your
experience as a coach
at healthy gamer before we dive in hell
yeah so why don't you tell us like how
you
how you came to be a coach to start off
with think about it karmically it's a
long
long story but i basically heard about
healthy gamer
through uh bobby scar and then
from there i was like oh this seems cool
uh
and then i saw you guys were like
looking for coaches i was like i
maybe i can do that uh and so i just
applied for it uh
like last like almost a year ago now
this you should be familiar with right
so you remember our coach role playing
from
from training and how terrible it was to
have you as a client
yes well i was actually trying to
remember that i was like i don't know if
i ever did it with dr k
because i think i remember doing that
with other coaches okay
and i was like curious i was like i
wonder what dr k's version
of like a challenging client is because
that's my assumption of what we're going
to be working on
okay um so yeah so we've got i'm going
to give you a choice pax
you can tell us a little bit about like
you know what clients you see commonly
and what kinds of problems they have
and then we can kind of pick one of
those or
um you know or maybe you can just share
a little bit about that and then like
twitch chat has given me some
suggestions
we could you could you could give
yourself over to the webs
twitch chat if you want to or why don't
you tell us like a little bit about what
you usually see
i guess what what i experience as coach
what i see a lot
is um i see people who
you know they're almost they always
always are like i just want to get
unstuck it's like what is that you know
what is unstuck
right um and very commonly they know
what they should be doing uh but
they can't bring themselves to do that
stuff so then they're like well now what
and then we talk about that and kind of
go from there we end up getting into
their past and
um you know that tends to be helpful for
reasons i'm sure
everyone hopefully everyone here
understands um
but i'd say that's like the biggest
biggest trend is like
like i know what to do but i don't do it
what's happening am i broken
like yeah great perfect okay so we're
gonna we'll do that then
so let's let's um i'm gonna be a
particular flavor of unstuck
i'm going to combine have you been
watching the stream did you see what
chat wanted
hell no i've okay yes yeah perfect
okay so um let's let's get started
uh hello alok it's all okay
yeah okay cool yeah so i'm paxton
welcome to coaching
uh or pax whichever doesn't matter no
i'm just gonna talk about some boring
[ __ ] for like a few minutes and then we
can kind of like launch into like what
we need to be doing
you know coaching like i don't know what
your understanding of coaching is but
basically we kind of operate
under the assumption that like if you
understand yourself then like you can
kind of
do what's in your best interest and kind
of go from there and what keeps people
kind of in place is like they don't
really understand much about themselves
and so i'm assuming that's like part of
the reason what brings you here and
absolutely we'll get into that more cool
so
i think sometimes i understand myself
too well
okay yeah i want to get into that in a
second
i've been coaching for you know since
last summer this is like what i do
full-time it's like what's on my mind
all the time it's
this is my jam just some expectations
about um
how this is gonna work so we're gonna
show up at the same time every week for
50 minutes sometimes we go
a little bit over that that's usually
fine um
i try to avoid it because i have other
clients kind of lined up afterwards
basically what we're going to be doing
in session is like i'm going to ask you
questions and you're just going to like
answer me and we're just
kind of just having a conversation
sometimes i give assignments i don't
usually do that it's not really my thing
some coaches do more some coaches do
less i'm
i'm one of the ones who do less i'm not
really great at assignments anyway
yeah that makes sense to me uh
there's going to be surveys after every
session so like i encourage you to get
those done
as you get them if you have trouble with
assignments and that
sort of be is one of them that we could
talk about that we might have to do them
in session but i don't get any of that
data none of that goes to me so you can
be as honest as you need to i don't i
don't see what you write
as for like confidentiality like you
already signed off on that i'm not gonna
like tell people your business
uh like me and the other coaches we kind
of talk about cases anonymously to kind
of like
you know get input on sort of like how
to help people like just like which my
clients in this situation like what
should i focus on
right okay um and then yeah
medical disclaimer you know this isn't
therapy i know this isn't therapy
it's not treatment of any kind we're
just two people but what what's
but i i've never really been in therapy
i thought this was like what's different
about this in therapy
isn't it yeah that's good about your
feelings
uh it can be but it not always is like
it's not always the case so like we talk
about feelings here that tends to be the
natural progression
um but some clients we talk more about
feelings than others
um therapy is very specialized it's very
specific um whereas coaching is
i i don't want to just say i'm just a
dude but like i'm kind of just a dude
and you know i just want to like help
you figure your [ __ ] out
whereas a therapist is like no they're
not
i can't really speak for them so maybe i
won't but i hope that makes sense
yeah cool um yeah so like
that sounds great man like how do we get
started
why don't you tell me like what brings
you to coaching like what's your
situation what's like your deal what's
your vibe
um well kind of like you said i i kind
of feel like i'm stuck
yeah you know what makes you say that
well i feel like um
you know i kind of know
what i need to do it's just i'm sort of
like lazy
like i was born with like the
undisciplined trait
on my character sheet okay and so um
you know you kind of mentioned that like
we're here to figure things out but i
feel like i've kind of already figured
everything out like i know what i need
to do
it you know i kind of know who i am and
what my weaknesses are it's just like i
can't figure out a way to
you know i i really want to get more
disciplined okay
uh so first thing i apologize if i laugh
i laugh a lot but it's nothing
you know if that bothers you let me know
um second i get laughed out of that
sounds like no big deal
fair enough uh we will talk about that
more
um come on facts you can't let that
slide bro
what would you actually it's your fault
i know i know it's my fault it's my face
that would not
that you know that would not yeah that's
not how you would respond
sorry sounds like you know yourself
pretty well
and so it's like you know if that's the
case it's like what can be done
absolutely go from here yeah right
that's why
you know i've been watching dr k streams
for a while
and um you know i was thinking that like
you know by the way when do i get to see
him uh
on stream this week later i think um
that's not like kind of how
like you're not gonna like have a
session with him i mean you can like
apply for like his
individual like he's like a psychiatry
website where like you can kind of
sign up for i think they're at capacity
right now because healthy gamer kind of
blew up out of nowhere but
was that an expectation you had did you
think no i just
i wasn't sure it's just you know
sometimes i think that like um
you know i feel like i like he would
really understand me
and he seems to like help a lot of
people like get on stock so
you know that's why i signed up for
coaching
right okay uh
let me think about that
yeah so you're saying because he
understands people he could be helpful
yeah i mean i've tried help from a lot
of people and it hasn't really worked
so you know i sometimes feel like this
is my like last chance
okay what does that mean well
i don't know man like i've tried
everything you know i've tried like
reading books and like i've tried like
you know i've watched a lot of jordan
peterson's stuff and
and you know like no matter how
important it is to clean my room like i
just can't
clean my room like it's just
it's still a mess and so i i don't know
it just sort of feels like
you know like i was just born with that
undisciplined trait so i don't really
know
you know like i feel like if i could
flip a switch in my brain
then like my life would be awesome
like i know exactly what i need to do
and i just need to flip that switch
and once that switch gets flipped
and i've seen it kind of happen on
stream with dr k where like you can see
people like flip a switch in their brain
and like i just know that
you know their life is transformed
gotcha
so so what i'm hearing is that you've
done a lot of kind of
external like research yeah and like
about how that relates to you about all
the things you like need to do
and so you're saying like you know since
you know everything that has to be done
you just need to like find this switch
and like flip it
and like once that happens it's like
your life is perfect
absolutely man
okay what what about you makes you
say that you're just like undisciplined
that you just like have this trait
well i mean like i see other people like
living their lives right but that's not
what i do
like other people get up and they you
know like shower and shave and like
cook themselves some breakfast and stuff
like that and in my case it's sort of
like
i just wake up and you know just hop
online and like
kind of screw around on reddit for like
an hour or two and then
you know i know there's like stuff i
need to do but and then like i start
watching twitch and i kind of have that
up on my second monitor
and then maybe i'll like play some games
and then like
you know i have some pizza left over
from yesterday
so okay so what i'm hearing you say is
like
compared to other people you're like not
disciplined because
instead of waking up yeah because like
other people other people like wake up
and they
[ __ ] do stuff and i just wake up and
i don't do [ __ ]
what do you think about that it
sucks what sucks about that
well i mean it's like every day is like
groundhog day
like every day is the same and like
every day is like
you know like every day that goes by
like i know i like i just know exactly
what i need to do i just can't do it
sounds frustrating yeah
i just think of like a dog on a leash
that's just like barking at everything
because it wants to like run at stuff
but it's like on this leash
and doesn't really understand it
yeah i mean i guess that's that's a good
way of putting it like i do feel like
you know definitely there's something
holding me back so that's like you know
like the switch like i want to get off
the leash
you know yep
what's it like to be on that leash like
you say it sucks
and like it's frustrating but like is
there more to it
i mean i think it's it's sort of like
you know the difference is that with a
leash you can take it off but like in my
situation that feels like it's like a
leash made
out of concrete like it's just the way
it is
and you know i've tried a lot of stuff
and like people have tried to help me
too
and it's been a waste of time and you
know sometimes like it's also kind of
like [ __ ] annoying because like they
tell me like they know what it's like
to like be in my shoes so they'll just
like tell me stuff right they'll be like
oh you should just do this bro
you just go like just right go and do
that bro
and i mean i would if they could yeah it
sounds like they don't really get it
and like there's kind of a disconnect
it's like you know that stuff already
yeah it's like you don't need you don't
need captain hindsight telling you what
you should have done or what you should
be doing
i mean it's like their brain is
different from my brain right like they
were born with the discipline right so
they can do that kind of thing
yeah oh look you've kind of said a lot
of times now like you've kind of made
this allusion to like
you know i'm just this way and that's
just how it is and like other people
aren't
yeah i guess i
yo what what he isn't that
i'm confused why do what is that yeah
what yeah so like
i'm just yeah because that's how it is
right so
when i think about that like if that's
just how it is then it's like i don't
know if we can do anything
right
well i mean yeah i mean that's why i
kind of feel like this is my last chance
because it's like
you know i don't feel like i can do
anything
like it would be easy if i was like
disciplined
yep so what i mean you say like it's
just how it is but like what
like what's the what's underneath it
like how do you know that
how do you know that that's just how it
is for you
well i mean because i have lots of
evidence
right so i i have like
like you know just for example like
i'm i sometimes like am alone and like i
want a relationship but i can't
get one and you know i've kind of like
i've tried that in the past but like
women just find me unattractive so
you know there's just really nothing i
can do about that
it's just truth you know
that that you're unattractive yeah
so like you can't ask people out because
it's just like you just know like you're
unattractive and it's like
there's no point absolutely
you know because like like i was reading
this website and they were talking about
signals like
you know how to tell if a girl likes you
and like they don't give me any of the
signals like so i know they don't like
me
oh okay
so because you're not getting these
signals that you that you researched
on the internet it's like you just know
they don't like you at all
yep
right because that's how you know
like whether they like you or not and so
i just know cause like i can also look
in the mirror
and i can tell you know i don't have the
jawline
right because you don't have the jawline
you're not gonna you're not getting the
signals so
you can't ask anyone out yep
okay
so yeah man i feel like the way you're
you're presenting oh go ahead
i was just gonna say i mean i guess i
could but like it's not gonna go well
you know wha what makes you say that
well because i'm not getting the signal
so like
it's just not going to go well
what does it mean to to go well
um i i don't know i guess like she'd
give me her number
okay i guess i i don't really know
i haven't really thought about that
before
okay what does it mean if you ask her
out and she doesn't give you her number
i i think it i think it just confirms
what i knew before right that like
she wasn't giving me the signal so
that's you know
that i'm unattractive like i kind of
know that already it's just like
you know it's just testing a hypothesis
like finding proof for your hypothesis
so if you know it to be true what's the
harm in asking then what's the harm in
just trying and seeing what happens
well i mean i already know what's gonna
happen so like what's the point doing it
you sound like you you know what's going
to happen a lot of the time
like you sound very convinced like you
know how things are going to pan out
yeah smart dude super high iq
right have you ever been wrong about
that
just curious have you ever thought you
knew what was gonna happen and then
you were pleasantly or unpleasantly
surprised i mean very few times
right like sure like theoretically i can
be wrong
like sometimes i make posts on reddit
that get downvoted and people tell me
i'm wrong
that's just because they're a bunch of
noobs
how do how does that how does that feel
when like a post gets downvoted
a bunch that's a really good question i
never really thought about that
um i mean i i think it sort of like
feels like i'm
you know like the world is all like
telling me one thing and like i think
something else
you know and it just makes me feel a lot
like you know they're like
all the regular people out there who are
sort of like living their lives and like
that's their perspective of like regular
people
you know it kind of feels a lot like
when people say
you know just go do this it's like they
all like they all think that and like
everyone tells me this stuff like all
the time
like people tell me that like i'm
actually like pretty good looking
you know like you know
and stuff like that like people tell me
all this stuff all the time but
you know that sounds like kind of very
conflicting
yeah i guess so i mean it's just you
know it's like people like my mom though
you know so it's like it's her job to
tell you that
and then also like some of my sister's
friends and things like that so it's
just like
got you it it's your mom's job and your
sister's friend's job to
say that you're attractive well i mean
it's not really their job but
you know they're just they're like
making fun of me you know
what what makes you say that well i mean
come on dude
like do you think i'm attractive what
would it mean to you
either way
what do you what do you mean by that
so i mean you're pretty certain that
you're unattractive that's what you're
telling me
yeah and so whether i did or not it
sounds like it doesn't matter sounds
like
it like means nothing
well i mean if if you were like genuine
about it i
you know that's kind of interesting
because like i feel like if you were to
say
yeah i do think you were attracted first
of all that'd be [ __ ] weird and then
secondly like you know i feel like it'd
be your job to say that
yeah but then i'm kind of like i'm kind
of realizing that i'm putting myself
into like a logical fallacy which is
like
you know no matter what it's like
i kind of ask a question but like i i'm
just noticing that
you know no matter what you say i'm
going to think the same thing yeah
that's kind of what it sounds like to me
is like no matter which answer i give
you
i'm either doing my job and like
patronizing you or i'm weird
or you were right the whole time at the
end of the day you're correct
what does that mean i'm gonna give that
one back to
you like what do you think about that
well i know what you're gonna say
what am i gonna say well you're gonna
say it's like all in my head and like
this is all self-fulfilling prophecy or
like
and like you know that no matter what i
like i see what you're saying like
you're kind of like maneuvering me into
this corner of like
you know it doesn't matter you know it
doesn't
i don't know man it feels like
you know it feels like you're going to
say that it's like all in my head
what makes you think i would say that to
you
well because it is like it's like you
know like
like kind of like you what you said like
you were like you know what would it
mean to you and i
i don't know i mean i'm kind of seeing
that you know i can see like it doesn't
matter what
how you would respond to that and so
like what you would tell me is that
you know maybe i'm doing that in other
parts of my life like i've i've watched
dr k's videos like i know how this [ __ ]
works you know
and then and then you know i don't i
don't know man
this is not what i was expecting isn't
it
yeah how do you feel right now uh it's
like different from what i was expecting
like i thought that
you know you would be like teaching me
how to meditate and
you know i thought like like maybe you
would ask me like bunches of questions
about like my feelings like what feeling
is that
and what feeling is that and what
feeling is that but i don't know i just
didn't think it would be so
i don't know man it's just it's just
different from what i was expecting
you know your expectation was not met
this is not what you were expecting at
all and so
you're feeling a type of way it's
interesting because i've asked you twice
now kind of like
about feeling like how do you feel and
and you've kind of never really given me
a straight answer so if you don't mind
i'm going to ask you again like how do
you feel right now
honestly like you know like kind of
confused but also like a little bit
intrigued
like i i think you may be a pretty smart
dude
i don't know uh but okay so you feel
confused and intrigued
what's intriguing i mean it's just not
what i expected you know i think that
like
i've watched so much stuff about this
kind of thing and like usually people
are
you know just like giving you like you
know people will say like these are the
10 things you need to do
to get your life in order like jvp's
book about you know the 12
rules and it's like you know
and and so it's different because we're
not i mean you're not really like giving
me rules
which is like what most people kind of
do right so it's kind of weird
yeah i mean it sounds like you've sought
out a lot of those rules and nothing has
really come of it
well yeah because i'm undisciplined
you know so it's like it's like how do i
get undisciplined is the
is the question i i don't really know if
we're
working on that or not i thought you
would like give me like a
you know like do this and then do this
and then do this kind of thing
right uh let me think for a second
remember when we were talking about
attractiveness like two seconds ago
yeah right and like it really seems like
for a moment there you kind of like
started to think a little differently
about
your assumption was am i wrong there
no i mean i think it's it you know i
don't know that i was thinking
differently but like
i was definitely thinking about it you
know i'm still pretty sure like i've
gotten mountains of evidence about how
unattractive i am so i'm
you know that past is still real but
like
you know i think it's definitely sort of
a little bit different i don't know
what do you mean by that how is it
different
i don't know man i just feel kind of you
know confused
what's confusing i thought you knew that
you like weren't attractive you had like
all this evidence right
yeah but then there's this whole other
angle of like maybe it's all in my head
right
what makes you think that
but i guess you
i mean don't you think i'm stupid
like for i mean like it's dumb dude like
i'm like confused like
you must think i'm an idiot because like
you're asking all these simple questions
and like i don't have good answers for
them
you say you don't have good answers like
what makes you say that
well because like i could hear the words
coming out of my mouth and they're like
they're not like you're asking me like
why i'm confused and i can't even answer
that you know it's sort of like
yeah you seem pretty taken aback right
now yeah
absolutely man like i said this isn't
what i was expecting
how do you feel like physically right
now
kind of uncomfortable like like just i
got like a little bit of tightness in my
chest like i'm not
you know i feel like i need to take a
deep breath and sort of sit up
do you think do you want to try that do
you want to like take a deep breath and
like sit up
yeah maybe i guess
i'll do it with you i mean i'm standing
but
yeah yeah that's that's cool i should
get a standing desk too
uh i'm not laughing
at the client i'm laughing at dr k um
sure so let's take a deep breath yeah
all right pax let's pause
just like yeah please so pax
how was that for you
um familiar but
very extreme i would say i've never had
a client who's like on that end
like so far on that end right absolutely
so pax i thought you did a fantastic job
i was trying to throw you as many
curveballs as i could
in wednesday i could tell yeah i thought
you did a really fantastic job let's
just i'm going to check
a chat what did you guys think about
that
no so this is the thing is so so even
though i was trying
really really hard pax to be
so sure of my beliefs you did a
fantastic job of like confusing me which
is exactly what you need to do
right so like because when people have
very rigid beliefs about themselves
what what we want to do is like we want
to you know it's sort of like they've
saved a document that is only readable
but is not editable
and so confusion is actually like the
first step of moving from
pre-contemplative to contemplative
so you did actually a really good job of
that of you know kind of
asking open-ended questions i also threw
out a lot of traps for you
which you dodged really well right you
want to tell people what the traps are
and what we explain about traps
yeah i mean asking me [ __ ] like um do
you think i'm attractive like do you
think i'm stupid like
you know anything where like if i say
yes or no i have like
i've essentially confirmed something
that they believe right
and so by kind of avoiding that you know
i'm not giving them what they want
because a lot of times when people are
that pre-contemplative like they just
want to be
right about what they feel so sure about
because like
weirdly enough that's like it's kind of
ego gratifying and like it kind of makes
them
even though they feel like [ __ ] all the
time like makes them feel better because
they're like well i'm right no one can
help me so like there's nothing to be
done
right right so the beautifully said i
don't know
so pax i thought that was a perfect
example
summary of what i was projecting
which is i want to be right and [ __ ] you
and so nothing can be done right i'm i'm
helpless i'm hopeless
i'm sure i'm helpless and hopeless and
there's no way that i'm wrong about
being helpless and hopeless
and so like when you create confusion
that's actually
really really good because then like
what am i confused about it changes the
rigidity of me being hopeless
and so you also did a really good job of
i said like oh you
you think like something about when i
was talking about the self-fulfilling
prophecy
you did a really good job around that
too where you were like oh i said
something like
you think that what did i say
do you remember what i'm talking about
where like um you kind of um
like i said that i felt confused and oh
you must think this is all in my head
and you did a really really good job of
like not
stepping into that trap too because you
could have said
you know because it is all in my head
and you know it's all in my head and you
could have said
it's all yeah like you know
sort of like i wonder about that
sometimes
and and so even though that would have
and so i i for people watching so like
that was a really really important point
for pax because
i was moving in the right direction and
if pax had agreed with me that i would
have gotten super defensive and then
like retreated
i don't know if you guys were able to
follow that but
um so so like but when you didn't own
that when you were like no i actually
don't you didn't say yes or no right you
did a good job you're like no i
i don't think it's all in your head no
it must be so hard for you
and like yeah maybe like maybe it is all
in your head bro
you know and so the more that you
were and this is a very like sort of tai
chi kind of like manner to you pax which
is awesome
which is that i'm trying to push you
like one way or the other and i'm like
it's all in my head right and then
you're like i'm not gonna take that bait
and the the less bait you take like the
further i
move in my own exploration because like
i have all these patterns in my mind
that are gonna snap to judgments
and close off kind of like free thinking
and so when you don't like let me do
that i'm trying to snap either way
do you think i'm attractive oh if he
says yes
oh it's his [ __ ] job to say that like
oh he's just lying to me right
it's just like my mom and if i say if
you say no oh see i knew
all right all along in either case i'm
moving
into completely explored territory that
doesn't help me at all
and so when you avoid that trap it like
forces me to like think about stuff
and so confusion in this in this
scenario is absolutely like that's what
we see in coaching is like
people get confused because we start to
like
work in a way where we don't let them go
down like the same old track over and
over and over again
and if you let me go down that same old
track over and over and over again
it's gonna be the self-fulfilling
prophecy cool thanks a lot pax
thank you poggers cool thanks a lot take
care
all right peace